The -O0 optimization level performs no optimization. It produces the largest and least efficient assembly code. The assembly code generated by the -O0 optimization level is also more readable because it follows a similar structure to that of the original C source code. The compiler allocates a large amount of memory on the stack. The stack frame contains a large memory allocation through the instruction subq $104, %rsp. This results in 104 bytes being allocated on the stack. All local variables are stored on the stack rather than in registers, leading to more memory load and store operations. For example, 


movq -56(%rbp), %rax

leaq 1(%rax), %rdx

movq %rdx, -56(%rbp)


There is frequent access to the stack memory. Since accessing memory is a very slow operation, there will be an increase in execution time. The assembly code generated by the -O1 optimization level is shorter compared to that generated by the -O0 optimization level. There is less memory allocated on the stack, as shown by the instruction subq $40, %rsp. The stack frame is relatively smaller, with only 40 bytes of memory allocated on the stack. Instead, the compiler uses  more registers. The -O3 optimization level is highly optimized. The assembly code generated by the -O3 optimization level is significantly different from the structure of the original C code. There are additional directives in the assembly code generated by the -O3 optimization level, such as .p2align 4,,10 and .p2align 3, which improve the cache alignment and performance. It mostly stores values in registers rather than in the stack frame. Therefore, there is less memory access. The compiler also uses xorl %eax, %eax, which is faster than movl $0, %eax. Finally, an interesting observation is that the assembly code generated by the -O3 optimization level has more lines of code than the assembly code generated by the -O1 optimization level. Thus, higher optimization doesn’t necessarily result in fewer lines of code; rather, it aims to improve efficiency.
